Prototypical Infrastructure on the LA River 

IN THE AGE OF THE PYROCENE



In an era of increasing wildfire threats, a period defined by fire and combustion that can be called the Pyrocene, this project reimagines the Los Angeles River as a critical line of defense and a vital community asset. It proposes interventions at the Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI), creating dual-purpose infrastructure that provides engaging public space for daily life. These spaces are designed to foster new community rituals  while offering essential water resources and shelter during a fire.

Screenshot 2025-09-07 153631



Analysis & Strategy

The project directly confronts the shifting wildfire-urban boundary and the destructive fire-rebuild cycle that impacts residents. Sited in the high-risk Glendale area, the strategy is to create prototypes that function as public amenities in normal times and as life-saving infrastructure during a fire emergency.

Untitled-3
Untitled-31



Three Fire-Ready Prototypes for the WUIThese projects propose public programs that occupy the boundaries of proposed firebreaks or buffer zones:

Reservoir Hub: An expanded reservoir featuring a public amphitheater that converts into a community fire shelter and a strategic water distribution point.

Community Pool & Cistern: A neighborhood swimming pool that serves as a recreational hub while its water volume acts as a ready reserve for firefighting.

Infrastructural Bridge: A bridge over the river with integrated water tanks that support a park while storing vast amounts of water for an emergency fire response.


AAD Moon Eddie Tom Norman SU25 Drawing

Screenshot 2025-09-07 153905



LA River in the Future

Together, these prototypes create an integrated water system for fire defense. Rather than trying to restore a wild state that no longer exists, the project seeks to "recompose" the LA River. It transforms it from a simple channel into a resilient public landscape built on principles of solidarity and reciprocity , actively fostering social resilience  to protect its community in the face of wildfire.

AAD Moon Eddie Tom Norman SU25 System
